# Group Name/Number
LuckyLlama, Group 6

# Purpose
Extending the interface that was developed for Assignment 3 that was about using PIO to receive I2S data from an INMP441 microphone. The extension of this is to implement an FIR filter and learn about signal processing by working directly with building a filter. 

# Introduction
Implementing an FIR filter began with researching available options in programming languages. The approach that was often seen was a dual buffer approach for inputting the data and working on one set and the other gets filled in with incoming data. The other approach was a circular buffer approach, but this one on approach seemed harder to implement so we stayed away from this and came at it with the dual buffer. To get the benefits that a circular buffer has (history of what the samples were and using them to filter the current sample value), we implemented a history component to the FIR filter so that values could still use older ones (using the last period).

The core part of the FIR filter is finding an appropriate set of coefficients to apply in the sigma. But because we do not know what these will be, we instead will be implementing a band pass filter (to get frequencies in the band that are around 500hz; yoinked it from this git repo https://github.com/nathanLoretan/FIR_Filter/blob/master/FIR_filter/fir_filter.cpp). We want to see if a window function is necessary first and if we can get consistent results then we will stick with it. 

# Assignment specific details
To implement this we found that having some playing room with the tone with a given band (bandpass filter) there would sometimes be false positives. If the window was too small sometimes the tones would bleed over and the 500hz dBFS would be smoothed out when comparing to tone noise vs no tone noise. So shortening this came into play but the tone was coming from speakers so shortening the range too much meant that the dBFS would be jumpy, going from recognizing the tone to then not seeing it at all. The jumpyness was likely due to natural noise in the wiring and how the pico got the analog data.
Implementing this filter with software meant that data would have whatever noise came in from the hardware and potentially never be removed from the signal. This noise can be significant enough that the signal as a whole is just garbage and the software might be none the wiser to it. But the advantage is that tuning the filter to different tones becomes easier to specify, change, and pin point. On hardware this would involve either changing the circuit design or having a set range of frequencies to implement a filter on. 

Software implementation using embedded hardware allows us to use different window functions to find the tone and extract its values out. Certian window functions would "dampen" or "louden" the observed noise on the result side. The Hanning window given no history would have values around -40, where playing the tone would have the dBFS at -38 and without at -48, so it was noticable when the tone was being played, but the result values were incorrect. This is when the history buffer was implemented, this reflected a circular buffer approach. This change along with shortening the FIR window, gave values in the range of -75 to -61 for tone off and on respectively. This is more accurate but the high end is still off which might be a case of either the filter not being fully complete (wrong window function or potentially decimals being chopped too soon) or the scaling needs to be altered to get the correct result. For now I'm going to leave it as it is and potentially do more in the future for this.


